Today, I'm going to show you my simple
three-step trading setup and exactly how
to spot them in the market. With over 8
years of day trading, I've traded this
setup hundreds of times. And to me, it
still remains to be one of the best,
most reliable, straightforward ways to
trade. I'm going to break it down layer
by layer, step by step, so that you know
exactly what a clean setup looks like.
And the best part about this model, in
its simplest form, it's perfect for
beginner traders to start becoming
profitable. And for advanced traders
like me, you can stack layers of
confluence over it to customize it how
you like. Still use the framework, but
add or subtract as you see fit. So, I'm
going to start with simple, clean
diagrams to explain the logic. Then,
we'll move into real chart examples and
recordings of me doing this in real
time. So, that by the end of this video,
you'll know exactly how to spot these
setups when they happen and how to
capitalize on them. So, what we're
looking for in the market is effectively
a perfect setup. So, what is my perfect
setup? A perfect setup is not a trade
that is guaranteed to win. This is a
really easy thing to misunderstand if
you're not a profitable trader. You
think if you have this perfect strategy,
you never need to lose a trade. You're
always going to be right. That's just
not the way it works. Even when
everything lines up perfectly, these
trades can still be losers.
Additionally, even if you have a perfect
setup, that doesn't mean that you want
to place more risk or more mental focus
on the result or outcome of this trade.
No matter how good a trade is, it always
has the opportunity to fail because at
the end of the day, the markets are
random. It's up to us to put the
frameworks in place to be able to
protect ourselves from this and exploit
an edge over time. Do not focus more
mental energy on trades that you think
are high conviction, have a higher
probability of working out, or that you
believe are going to work out. Attaching
your beliefs to that system is not going
to be good. Focusing on your strategy is
what you need to do. So, for example, in
a good example of this, I've had C
setups. So, not A plus, not B, all the
way down to C where I still want to take
it because of the situation I'm in or
the fact that I think I can capitalize
on that move for the day. Maybe I'm in
profit and I have a slightly higher
tolerance for risk. And trades like
those can sometimes play out to be the
biggest trades that you'll have, ones
that you're not expecting to work out.
That's why you have to treat them
equally. This happened to me just a few
days ago. The trade just kept running on
me on a C++ setup. Conversely, if I have
an A+ setup where everything is lining
up, all my conditions are perfect
recently as well, full loss right away.
And mind you, it was a contained loss. I
followed everything in my process. But
still, nonetheless, a better trade setup
ended up being in a loss. And there's a
stark difference between these two
things. Very important to understand. To
me, what makes a good trade is when I'm
following my actual rules. And what
makes a bad trade bad is when these
rules are not followed. Even if you make
money on the bad trade or lose money on
the good trade, that is what constitutes
a good trade. Because at the end of the
day, it has nothing to do with the money
made or lost on the trade. Largely,
trading should have very little to do
with money. and instead the money is a
byproduct of good trading. Kind of a
hard thing to understand cuz obviously
we're all in this game to attempt to
make profit. But as traders, we need to
be able to rewire the way we think and
program it not to be so much about money
so that the money flows as a result of
being a good trader rather than chasing
money. People who chase money, they're
going to drive themselves into the
ground. I've seen it so many times I've
almost did it myself. So that is very,
very important because no matter what,
each trade is going to carry risk no
matter how good the setup looks. I can't
drive that home enough. Okay? And the
goal isn't to find the perfect setup and
then go allin with your account. Risk
everything that you have because you
have an A+ setup. The goal is to try to
find opportunities in the market. Give
yourself an even chance to be able to
exploit those and let a slight advantage
that you have by positioning yourself
carefully in the market to play out over
time. So my goal is always to understand
what high probability setups look like
so that you can identify the right
opportunities, cut out all of the noise
that the market gives you, and execute
that edge with clarity. That's the only
thing that we're focusing on is
executing an edge that we know is there
from data testing, from understanding
how this process works so that we can
cut out all the noise, all of the news,
and all of the emotions that play into
this. And knowing what the perfect trade
looks like is going to help us focus
purely on perfect trade setups. It's all
we want to focus on. Again, this is the
goal of trading and what I try to do
with this strategy. And if we can make
sure that we're always following this
ideology, it makes executing a lot more
simple because everything that you're
doing is starting with this foundation
and this intention. If we're able to
enter a market here by anticipating
where a trend is going to start, we can
enter here. We can place our risk where
if we're wrong, we're going to leave
that trade for a contained loss. And if
we're able to time that, we're able to
let the market move and exit when the
trend is complete. In this circumstance,
we can make seven times what our
contained risk is on the trade, which
means we can be wrong a ton of times. We
only need to be right a few times to be
able to achieve profitability over time.
We don't need to be batting a thousand,
being right about every single idea.
Most traders are completely fine with
being wrong when they're going to be
wrong because they understand this
concept, right? We're just trying to
keep our risk contained and if we're
able to time those areas, we can make
substantially more than what we're
risking. And that's all we really need
to focus on when it comes to trading.
Okay? So this is how I identify certain
opportunities in the market. First, I
need to be able to identify trends.
Secondly, I need to know signals of when
a trend is or potentially is ending.
Then I need to be able to strategically
position myself in to capitalize. And
then once we have this framework, this
is where we can add extra filters,
confluences to be able to try to
increase that win rate, be a little bit
more selective of where we are entering
into the market to give ourselves a high
win rate and a high probability of
profitability. Now, let's dive into the
strategy. Like I said, first I'm going
to describe it with diagrams. Then we're
going to look on the chart. Then we're
going to look at recordings. So by the
end of this, you're going to have a
really, really good idea of what this
looks like. So step number one is being
able to identify trends. Okay? So a
trend is when prices are generally
moving down in one direction. And we can
identify these a few different ways. We
need to have clear responses off at
least two levels. So we see 1 2 3. And
these are levels where price just
seemingly can't break through that area.
Okay? And what we're seeing in this is
areas where the supply is outweighing
the demand. and demand is pushing prices
up. Supply is the abundance which is
driving prices down. And anytime we have
price trying to break out of this area,
we can see sort of these invisible
levels where prices continue to have
reactions off of. And that's going to
effectively give us that threshold where
price cannot break through.
Additionally, the third thing that we
need as a unique identifier of what a
trend actually constitutes as is
something called break of structures.
Okay? And this is how break of
structures work. Let's say we have a
trend this way and then we have a big
push down. We have this point. Then we
have a push up which is lower than this
point. And then we have a candle push
down past this lower swing point and
make a candle close. Okay, that's
confirming to us that price is breaking
down making a lower low. And then when
price comes up, fails to break over this
area and then does it again which is
giving us technically in this case we
have a break of structure here, here,
and here. So that's three. There can be
a lot more break of structures, but we
at least need two breaks of structure in
a trend in order to confirm that we have
a lower low, lower high, lower low,
lower high, and then a break of
structure, which gives us that
downtrend. These are the unique
identifiers of a trend. Step two, I'm
always looking for unique identifiers.
It could signal to me when a trend is
potentially done, which effectively is
allowing us to pick the very beginning
of a potential new trend. If that's the
case, we're in very early on a trend. If
that's not the case, then we are always
containing our risk. And maybe we can be
wrong, but the goal is to position
ourselves so that if we are right, we're
early in a trend. So that's what we need
to be able to figure out, knowing signs
of when a trend could be ending. Let's
look back at our other example. And what
I'm looking for primarily is a candle
close outside of the contact points. So
we have our contact points here. You can
see we get a big candle push from this
contact point on the trend and a close
above. Also, this is important thing to
mark. Notice how we have a push down, a
push up. This area fails to break a new
low under this area. And then we have a
push over this contact point on the
trend. This is a perfect setup
indicating that the demand is starting
to outweigh the supply causing a big
candle to push out of this area that
previously couldn't get broken. And now
we're changing the characteristics of
the trend as well as indicating based
off of us reading supply and demand that
this could be the end of this downtrend.
And what we're using for a unique
identifier is something called a change
of character. So break of structures are
in the current trend where we're having
pushes producing lower lows or higher
highs. And then once we fail to break a
lower low in this case and we have a
push up over this contact point, that's
what we call a change of character. And
I need to have a confirmation of a
change of character. The third thing
that I'm looking for is something called
the confirmation of a FVG, also known as
a fair value gap. Okay? And what
constitutes as a fair value gap is when
we have a sequence of three candles. 1 2
three candles where the first candle's
high wick doesn't overlap with the low
of the third candle's wick. And the area
in between here is going to be our fair
value gap. You'll also notice how I have
a dotted line at the 50% mark of this
fair value gap. This is a level called
the consequential encroachment line. I'm
not going to get into that too too much,
but just understand this 50% level in
between this fair value gap is really
important. And this is what I'm looking
for produced in order to take one of
these situations seriously. If this
candle just pushes up and then
immediately fills back down on the next
candle, this is not a proper setup and
it's not indicating a true amount of
strength that I want to be able to play
into. Step three of this process is
actually positioning to capitalize on
this potential move in a different trend
direction. Right? We've been able to
identify the characteristics of the
trend, how to find important levels,
waiting for a break. Now, how do we
position ourselves around this? This is
the core of my simple process. All
right. So in this circumstance, prices
pushed up, created a fair value gap,
created our change of character. So now
what I'm doing is positioning my entry
at the 50 point of this fair value gap.
I'm placing my contained risk, if I'm
wrong, below this swing point over here,
sometimes below the fair value gap
producing candle. But really what I want
to do is look for important areas. So
I'm seeing that price sort of can't
break through here. So I'm going to use
that as sort of my buffer and place the
stop outside of critical areas. And for
now, I'm just putting my takeprofit 4x
what my risk is at a starting point. But
this will sort of move dynamically
depending on if we get confirmation and
continuation and have to further manage
the trade. So step two of this process,
assuming that I am in a successful trade
and things don't just come through my
stop-loss. Now, because we have our
changing character here, the next move
off of a push up, a pull down, notice
how price responded off of this area.
Only barely went through it for moments,
but never closed into that area.
responded off of the opposite side of
this trend level and then continued
making a high. If we look at this as our
first high of that push, price coming
down. As soon as I see a candle close
above that swing high, now we have a new
break of structure one. This is
effectively confirming to me that now we
are in the beginning of a new potential
uptrend as soon as we have this break of
structure. And so what I'm doing is
completely reducing my risk at this new
formation of a break of structure. So,
we get a nice push in our direction,
close over this swing point. Now, you
can see I've reduced all of my risk from
before down to zero, put my stop-loss
level at my entry, and now we have a
risk-free trade, allowing for this trend
to play out to see if we can make profit
as it moves in that direction. Okay? And
so, the third step of this process is
really important, and that is to take
profit at high probability reversal
areas. There are two big things that I
look for. This is where it gets somewhat
abstract. Everyone can do it a little
bit differently. I'm going to show you
the two ways that I use here in just a
second. But I want to show you something
first. I want to look at this now on a
dynamic chart. Make sure that all of the
market mechanics are making sense before
we go into the next step of actually
being able to know where to take profit
and get the most amount of profit
possible. So, let's take a look at our
full chart. I'm charting on Trading
View. If you're brand new to trading, I
have a referral link in the description
if you're interested. But, this is what
I'm charting on and doing all of my
analysis on. Okay. So, I want to explain
to you how to be able to very clearly
identify these areas. And you're going
to see these popping up in a lot of
other places as well. So you can see we
have sort of that invisible line level
here produced here, here, here, multiple
contact points. And then notice once
again how we have an actionable break
below that area. Price comes up and lo
and behold, this is the exact last area
that price tests into before having a
really really big sell-off. Also, if we
look at exactly what that pair is up
with, you'll see the fair value gap was
responded to, didn't have a close
outside of before making a push to the
downside. So, you're going to see these
show up a lot of places, and this is
going to remove a lot of confusion.
Instead of just looking at a blank chart
like this with candles flying around,
now you actually have really, really
good ways to start picking and isolating
very important high conviction areas.
But importantly, we're going to see that
at this low point, price didn't come up
and produce a new break of structure.
Okay? Price broke down, pushed back up,
and then broke underneath this level. So
effectively as the price is closing
below here, this is technically on this
uptrend our change of character level.
So we get a push down, another push back
up, another push down. Now we have
confirmation of a break of structure.
Now we can start looking at this as a
new confirmed downtrend. We have
multiple contact points here. Then
you'll notice this level failed to
create that break of structure. Instead
made a significant push out of this area
that price couldn't break out of.
Created our fair value gap. So we set up
our position. price responds off of the
opposite side of this trend, sort of
chops sideways a little bit, and finally
has a close, breaking out of this
previous area. This is where I'm
reducing my risk to break even,
risk-free trade. Now, on this trend, you
can see we're starting to produce
contact points along this low. So, this
is the low portion of the trend. And you
can sort of see price comes back down,
almost contacts that perfectly. Then, we
see price chops around, comes back and
forth, doesn't come back down to our
entry zone. So, we're still in a
positive uptrend. We have our break of
structure formation here. At this point,
after we have a break of structure, a
pullback, price fails to break over this
level. And you can see at this point, we
have a confirmation of our change of
character area. And additionally, you
can see we're starting to contact this
lower level again and again. Then we
finally get a break of that level. Like
I said, I'm going to get into timing
these tops where I actually exit trades
here in a second. But just to show you
once again, we have our failed break of
structure. Break of structure one, two,
change of character underneath this
area. See how inside of this trend level
even this fair value gap was a little
bit passed through but overall pretty
decently respected. We wouldn't take
this as a trade opportunity but just to
see. And then we have as we come in
contact with this lower point of this
trend profit at the midpoint resistance
area stop loss outside of here. Set our
position up to have 4x the risk. We have
our new break of structure under this
area which would make it so that we can
move our stop loss to break even. And
you can see from here we can play into
the opposite side of the move. And now I
have a very very intentional way to
enter into the market. But the question
is once we get these moves, where do we
actually exit the trade? Now this is
where a lot of variety gets thrown in.
I'm going to show you the two main
things that I use and then what I sort
of think makes the most sense for
traders kind of making their own
decisions. Okay, so the first thing that
I like to look at for my take-profit
plan is figuring out two critical areas.
The first is going to a higher time
frame. So when I'm day trading between
the 1, 3, or 5 minute, I like to look at
the 15minut chart. But basically just a
chart that is on a higher time frame
than what you're trading. All right? And
looking for important high impact fair
value gaps. So you can see in this
example here as price is moving up. If
we look at our whole entire trend level
here, we have fair value gaps here up
here of course but into resistance. This
is a pretty prominent fair value gap.
The next thing that I'm looking at is
something called a 61.8 Fibonacci level.
And this is starting to get a little bit
more advanced. I'm going to show you
simple ways to be able to look at this
on Trading View in a second. So stick
with me. What I'm also doing is taking
this Fibonacci tool and clicking from
the base of my trend down to the last
point of this whole trend, which is
going to give me these values. 23.6,
38.2, a 50 value, 61.8, and 78.6. Okay.
And these are retracement values that
are often times responded well as it
pertains to pullbacks and then
continuations in markets. Okay. So
additionally, if I drag my fib from the
start to the bottom, and I see that even
on the previous price action, we have
areas where price is responding well off
of these levels already, that could
indicate to me that in the future, as
we've seen here and here, that price is
likely to also respond. And this golden
ratio, 61.8, is particularly important.
And in this case, we're seeing that it
matches up into the same zone as this
high impact 15-minute fair value gap. So
I'm kind of looking for harmonies like
this. And we can see in case of this
example, if I go to a 15-minute chart,
if I draw out my fair value gap, and
click on this tool here, Fibonacci
retracement tool, and click from the
highest point down to the lowest point
as price starts to trade higher and
higher, we see a heavy response off of
61.8 into the midpoint of this fair
value gap in a reversal, which basically
gave us exactly almost 1 to four. Now,
if our take-profit was able to be a
little bit tighter, we can get five or
six times what we're risking on the
trade. But for this case, almost four
times our risk before having that be the
actual continuation to the downside of
this current new trend. And if we look
in the case of our next example where we
have price break underneath, retest the
midpoint, break of structure here, risk
reduced to break even. If we take the
Fibonacci from this trend high to this
area, first push up that we had with our
risk reduced to zero. Had that have
continued to make a move up, we have
zero risk on the table. But in the case
where we have a really, really quick
push down, we really don't have any fair
value gaps until this whole entire chunk
of move happens, in which case our next
fair value gap is right here with the
midpoint right here. So you can see
price continues to move way past that
level. So you can understand how this
can be somewhat subjective, but even off
of our initial risk amount, this is
giving us 6.5 times what we were risking
while being able to identify key areas
into the market and letting the winners
run. Sometimes what I'll do is walk my
stop loss in trailing the each
individual fair value gaps on these big
runners. So that would come up to this
candle here where you can see there's a
small fair value gap which kind of
allows me to trail my takerit further
and further be able to extract more and
more out of my positions. Okay. But most
importantly, this is going to be
different for every single trader
depending on the market that you're
trading, depending on the time frame
that you're trading. So, it's important
that each person is going through and
seeing over time what is the best
strategy to do this that aligns with
you, that makes sense with you, and
allows you to be able to hold these
trades a lot longer. There's not one
simple all-purpose solution to actually
doing this. It's about figuring out
where you tend to get into the markets,
what works for you, and then what over
time if you say, had I have done, you
know, this one or this one or this one,
what would be my outcome over that
period of time? And then effectively,
you're just reverse engineering your
success. You have that answer. That's
kind of the confluence. It works with
your edge and how you're trading the
market. So, this comes down to being
dependent of each person. Okay. So, now
let's take a look at a live example of
me doing this in real time. So, you can
see right here, we're noticing
immediately a few things. I have my
trend level figured out here. There was
a fair value gap which I also traded the
trade before. I'll show you in a second.
Displacement candle pushes out of that
trend level creating this fair value
gap. Price pushes back into that. That's
exactly where I got my entry. I have all
of my confluences lining up. I have my
new trend being established here.
Patiently waiting for price to make a
move. Once we break over that high, I'm
reducing my stop-loss level to break
even. Letting my winner run. And you can
see I'm up about six or seven risk
factors on my trade already at that
point. And then when price comes up to
my take-profit level that I've found
with my higher time frame confluences,
that's where I can take the trade off
the table. This was a little bit lower
quality of a setup considering that
these levels hadn't yet been broken. But
you can see I placed my entry below this
sweep level into a high actionable
change of character fair value gap. And
then we finally broke out of that trend
level. You can see right here, price
starts moving in my direction. All
right. And this is where I take all of
the profit off of the table. Okay. And
this was exactly the midpoint of my
higher time frame fair value gap.
Trading is not a fairy tale land with
strategies like this. Of course, there's
going to be a lot of losers a lot of
times where these trades don't
particularly work out. So, you can see I
was trying to place fibs. I was trying
to find trend areas to see if I could
sort of frontr run the breakdown of this
sort of big push. So, I took my entry
here, got a little bit of an initial
response, and then price eventually
moved up and triggered my stop-loss
order, in which case I took a contained
risk, walked away from the trade,
totally accepting that, yeah, I lost a
trade, but that doesn't make it a bad
trade. If you want to watch me do this
live, I'll put more videos here where
you can see me live trading. If you want
to learn the strategy in more detail if
you're more advanced, I'll also put a
playlist right here for you. If you're
still here, make sure you hit the like
button, subscribe if you want to know
when I drop new videos. Let me know in
the comments which part of this was the
most helpful. I appreciate you guys.
Until next time, I will see you all in
the next
